---
title: 运维常用命令备注手册
categories: ["教程"]
tags: ["运维", "Docker"]
date: 2019-01-01
lastmod: 2020-04-16
---

## Git

### fork出来的仓库同步upstream

1. 在 fork 的代码库中添加上游代码库的 remote 源

```sh
git remote add upstream git@github.com:789/456.git
```

2. 获取原始仓库分支和对应的提交

```sh
git fetch upstream
```

3. 在本地实现与upstream的同步

```sh
git rebase upstream/master
```

4. 推送自己的本地仓库到自己的远程仓库

```sh
git push
```

### Push tags to remote

* `git push --tags <repo-name>`  All refs under refs/tags are pushed, in addition to refspecs explicitly listed on the command line.


### Delete remote tags/branch

```sh
# more expressively, use the --delete option (or -d if your git version is older than 1.8.0)
git push --delete origin tagname
```

or 

```sh
# You just need to push an 'empty' reference to the remote tag name:
$ git push origin :tagname
```

## 查看外网出口ip

```sh
$ curl ifconfig.me
```

## Upgrade docker on centos 7.4

```sh
sudo yum remove docker docker-client docker-client-latest docker-common docker-latest docker-latest-logrotate docker-logrotate docker-selinux  docker-engine-selinux docker-engine
sudo yum install -y yum-utils device-mapper-persistent-data lvm2
sudo yum-config-manager --add-repo https://download.docker.com/linux/centos/docker-ce.repo
sudo yum install docker-ce


sudo systemctl start docker
sudo systemctl enable docker
sudo systemctl status docker
```

_注_: when run docker build get error: `is not a valid repository/tag`

Maybe the rease as below:
1. The tag name not allowing uppercase characters.
2. current docker version not support multiple stages build.

## Docker ADD vs COPY

### ADD
1. __ADD__ can also copy files from a URL
2. __ADD__ it copies compressed files, automatically extracting the content in the given destination.

_Notes_:  this feature only applies to locally stored compressed files/directories.  You CAN NOT download and extract a compressed file/direcotry from a URL.

__Notes__: The recognized compression formats include __identity__, __gzip__, __bzip__, and __xz__.

### COPY

__COPY__ can be used only for locally stored files.

### Which to Use (Best Pratices)

Docker’s official documentation notes that __COPY__ should always be the go-to instruction as it is more transparent than __ADD__.


The Docker team also __strongly discourages__ using ADD to download and copy a package from a URL. Instead, it’s safer and more efficient to use __wget__ or __curl__ within a __RUN__ command. By doing so, you avoid creating an additional image layer and save space.

Let’s say you want to download a compressed package from a URL, extract the content, and clean up the archive.

Instead of using __ADD__ and running the following command:

```Dockerfile
ADD http://source.file/package.file.tar.gz /temp
RUN tar -xjf /temp/package.file.tar.gz \
  && make -C /tmp/package.file \
  && rm /tmp/ package.file.tar.gz
```

You should use:

```Dockerfile
RUN curl http://source.file/package.file.tar.gz \
  | tar -xjC /tmp/ package.file.tar.gz \
  && make -C /tmp/ package.file.tar.gz
```

## Docker ENTRYPOINT vs CMD

In short, __CMD__ defines default commands and/or parameters for a container. __CMD__ is an instruction that is best to use if you need a default command which users can easily override. If a `Dockerfile` has multiple CMDs, it only applies the instructions from the last one.

On the other hand, __ENTRYPOINT__ is preferred when you want to define a container with a specific executable. You cannot override an ENTRYPOINT when starting a container unless you add the --entrypoint flag.

Combine __ENTRYPOINT__ with CMD if you need a container with a specified executable and a default parameter that can be modified easily. For example, when containerizing an application use ENTRYPOINT and CMD to set environment-specific variables.

__CMD__ 定义默认的命令或是容器的参数， 如果你需要一个默认的指令，而用户可以很容易地覆盖这个指令，那么 __CMD__ 是最好使用的。 如果一个 `Dockerfile` 有多个 CMD, 最后一个会生效。 

另外， 当你想定义一个指定的可执行命令时， __ENTRYPOINT__ 是最好的选择。 当启动容器时，你不能覆盖 __ENTRYPOINT__,除非你添加 `--entrypoint` 的参数.

如果你需要一个容器包含指定的可执行命令和一个很容易被修改的默认参数，则需要结合使用 __ENTRYPOINT__ 和 __CMD__。 比如，一个容器化的应用使用 __ENTRYPOINT__ 定义可执行命令，通过 __CMD__ 设置环境指定的变量。


## Nginx Localtion ends with the slash character 

If a location is defined by a prefix string that __ends with the slash character__, and requests are processed by one of proxy_pass, fastcgi_pass, uwsgi_pass, scgi_pass, memcached_pass, or [grpc_pass](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_grpc_module.html#grpc_pass), then the special processing is performed. In response to a request with __URI equal to this string__, but __without the trailing slash__, a permanent redirect with the code __301__ will be returned to the requested URI __with the slash appended__. If this is not desired, an exact match of the URI and location could be defined like this:

```conf
location /user/ {
    proxy_pass http://user.example.com;
}

location = /user {
    proxy_pass http://login.example.com;
}
```

__Refer to__: https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_core_module.html#location



# Vim 

## 